+++
title = 'Intuition based decision making'
date = 2024-10-23T16:28:01+07:00
draft = false
+++

In the tech industry we many times hear about data driven decision making and having the correct data. This is all good and fine but would like to talk a bit about intuition based decision making and when you might have incomplete data sets. Especially in the context of if you like a person or not. While not profiling, more about initial impression, and subconcious data. As a security professional i have encountered multiple times that i feel something is off with a person, later it have turned out that this person been a thief or just not good for the business or the company i am working at. I think everyone have encountered this and a lot of the work of HR departments doing screenings and interviews is to find red flags. However many times i think HR might look more on culture fit then security related aspects and miss a lot. I also have multiple times knew something was off but not raised concern loud enough about someone, while there was indicators it might be difficult to realize it and i think this is the core of this transmission. That i think there are ways to train yourself to listen more carefully in the moment for these indicators. This is most likely useful both for a company but also for people in their personal life. While the base of your human security should be in data driven and procedures, processes etc. Such as segregation of duties, approvals, never reply to that unknown sms etc. I do think there is a place for what i now call "intutive decision making and reflection" as part of a security program. Is def a higher chance you can get things wrong or hallucinate but as part of your toolbox and used with risk mitigating controls i believe is a area not explored enough. 

I once sat in a conference call with a well known felon many of you heard about with the initials SBF. While the business we did together was all legal and very brief i did find just by the 30 min call red flags and my impression after the call was that i thought he to be smart but a "cowboy" attitude, as many times before i did not think much about it until he came in the news for the frauds. So what was the indicators. We did blockchain transactions and when you do that there is a fee you need to pay to the network for it to process your transactions. From our side we calculated the fee and used what seemed like a appropiate balance. SBF just directly mentioned his transactions was done and he set the maximum amount possible to make the transaction go thru as fast a possible. In the call i reacted that this was indeed quite smart to make it go faster, but a secondary feeling was of recklessness. Later in the call it was insuniated by no response from SBF that they did not use any 2FA on the crypto wallets, i suspect using metamask in the browser with simple password. Without specifing the exakt amount, this was very large transactions by anyone standard. I had mentioned how we handled our accounts on our side and there was no interest or reply, while not definitive something in the air tingling that feeling again. Intution told me something was off. So these was the only two data points. If you can call it data points? They are data, but often not direct. Incomplete and goes partial into your subconcious. 

There was another person i had a conversation with, i don't remember what we talked about but i remember me disliking the person and that something was off. I never acted on the feeling and it was gone as fast as it came in that conversation, a couple months later i got notified he had stolen a number of company assets. 
As a final remark, i do think this could be done in a more scientific way and could benefit not only security departmens but business in general to make the right decisions. Even do intuition will never be a complete solution, we semi subconcious seem to know a lot more. EOT.
