+++
title = 'Why we do it'
date = 2024-10-06T17:09:22+07:00
draft = false
+++

One of the reasons i like technology is what happened to me around 20 years ago or so. While i already loved tech and computers as a hobby i just started out working professionaly doing IT support at a large telecom company. Satisfying work as in those days, IT support people like myself had to go out to the person and ask what was wrong and start troubleshooting. It really could be anything, from a disk drive not working on a fujitsu desktop. (Tip: You need to hit the desktop chassi in the front as it had a tendency to come out 1cm or so making so the disks did not read), to needing to understand the application, debug dlls etc. You learned a lot about systems and user behaviour in a very short amount of time. One of these tickets just said. "I cannot see anything on my screen". The ticket was created from the customer support department. I walked over to that building and asked for the lady. When i saw her i understand directly, she was blind. Panic went thru my body, how could i help this person. I asked nicely, okey so you can't see anything on your computer. Yes, she told me and pointed to a device on her desktop. She said she sees the computer thru this device called a braille device and all of a sudden she don't see anymore. She still had a desktop monitor so i could see the screen as normal, i did not even know where to start. Only thing i thought of, okey lets reboot and see what happens. So that what i did. As soon as the windows pc started up again, she exlaimed. "I can see!, thank you!" I never forget the feeling i got in that moment, still now 20 years or so later. People with disabilities, what technology can enable for them is just fantastic and one really good reason to work in tech. 
